CubeAPM is an Application
Performance Monitoring tool.
In simple words, it is
like Fitbit for software.
It monitors vital parameters of APIs
and helps software development teams
ensure their software is performing well.
Let's take a quick tour of
some of its key features.
This is the homepage of CubeAPM.
Here we get a bird's eye view of
the health of all our microservices.
Each row corresponds to a microservice,
and the color band indicates
the health of that microservice
over the selected time interval.
Green indicates normal health, orange
indicates slight degradation, and red
indicates significant degradation.
CubeAPM calculates the thresholds for
green, orange, and red automatically
so we don't have to set them manually.
Each row can also be expanded to show
the API endpoints causing poor health.
Both the service name and the
endpoint name can be clicked to see
more details about that resource.
We can also switch to the detail view
to see the key system performance
metrics in a tabular format.
Let's dig into this service.
Here we get high-level details of
how this microservice is performing.
This is Requests per Minute
that this service is getting.
This is the 90th percentile latency
of the service, this is the average
latency, and this is the error rate.
Here we have a drilldown of service
latency across its dependencies, for
example, databases and external services.
Next is RED metrics.
RED is an acronym for Request Rate, Error
Rate, and Duration, that is, Latency.
Accordingly, here we can see these metrics
for all the API endpoints of this service.
If we want to dig deeper into any
particular endpoint, we can click
on the corresponding icon here.
Let's check out this one.
Here we get a lot of information
about this API endpoint.
We have the key metrics we saw earlier.
We also have the drilldown.
This table shows us how many times
each dependency is called to serve
one request to our API endpoint.
A high number here suggests opportunities
for optimization, for example, caching.
And down here CubeAPM has
picked up some "slow" samples.
We can get a sense of what's going
on inside by clicking any request,
and get even more details if we want.
Here we have a full trace
of this particular API call.
We can see how much time was spent where.
The waterfall gives an idea of
relative start and end times.
We can also see details like the query
executed in this database operation.
If an API call involves multiple
microservices, this page will show the
details across all those microservices.
So, we have seen how we can start from
a bird's eye view of all microservices
to granular details of a single request.
All these dashboards are
pre-built into CubeAPM, so you
get great value out of the box.
CubeAPM also integrates with the
OpenTelemetry standard so it's very
easy to switch to or out of CubeAPM
with no changes in your code.
Lastly, CubeAPM runs on
your infrastructure, so
your data remains with you.
And it also lowers the total
cost to upto a fifth compared
to other commercial APM tools.
Yes, that's upto 80% savings!
CubeAPM offers many more great features.
For example, you can push your
own metrics to CubeAPM and build
powerful dashboards with them.
You can also set alerts and
have them delivered to popular
channels like email, slack, etc.
Want to try it out yourself?
Visit playground dot CubeAPM dot com!